/u/keiyakins on Nazi-killing video game "Wolfenstein II" angers Nazis with 'Make America Nazi-Free Again' slogans
Has anyone brought up morale yet? I know Athene mentioned pilots trying to control their boners and really that is like half the situation. Imagine for a moment an American amphib, the entire marine complement is arrayed upon it's deck an their commanding officer stands as though to give a rousing speech. Naturally the men are tired and bored ready to get it all over with, then he says those magic words, "Men, today we fight the NAZIs." No words are more beautiful to an American fighting man, a fight with real honest to god nazis. There is no question of public relations, no building bridges, pointless patrols just roaming in giant circles replaced with a forward advance, a firepower advantage you get to leverage in actual firefights instead of some hajji shooting two bullets and sprinting down an 85 degree incline. A fight in which you can pile the bodies of the Waffen SS ten meters deep into serve as the base for an American flag and return home lauded as a hero instead of going to NJP. This is basically wankfuel to many infantrymen, the idea of piling the corpses of Nazis ten deep and amassing a bodycount so large Chesty Puller himself descends from the heavens to give you a handy over what a good job you did. Is it blood thirsty, wrong, or immoral to want to kill literal wagons full of nazis? Of course not, they are Nazis, your kill count of them might just go towards advancement. Think of the pilots, an F-15 pilot walking out to his fighter as he has been called only to see it loaded down in an air-to-air configuration. It is only now mere feet from his fighter he is given his briefing, they have armed his plane with every air-to-air missile it can carry, he is to go up, and just fly around shooting down every Nazi plane until he gets bored or runs out of ammo, whichever comes first. He would have one hand on the plane's stick and the other on his own.  From this classic post in a response to someone trying to argue that WWII Germany could beat 1991 USA.   